"LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Commands_all.html)

:line

angle_style cosine/periodic command :h3
angle_style cosine/periodic/omp command :h3

[Syntax:]

angle_style cosine/periodic :pre

[Examples:]

angle_style cosine/periodic
angle_coeff * 75.0 1 6 :pre

[Description:]

The {cosine/periodic} angle style uses the following potential, which
is commonly used in the "DREIDING"_Howto_bioFF.html force field,
particularly for organometallic systems where {n} = 4 might be used
for an octahedral complex and {n} = 3 might be used for a trigonal
center:

:c,image(Eqs/angle_cosine_periodic.jpg)

where C, B and n are coefficients defined for each angle type.

See "(Mayo)"_#cosine-Mayo for a description of the DREIDING force field

The following coefficients must be defined for each angle type via the
"angle_coeff"_angle_coeff.html command as in the example above, or in
the data file or restart files read by the "read_data"_read_data.html
or "read_restart"_read_restart.html commands:

C (energy)
B = 1 or -1
n = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 for periodicity :ul

Note that the prefactor C is specified and not the overall force
constant K = C / n^2.  When B = 1, it leads to a minimum for the
linear geometry.  When B = -1, it leads to a maximum for the linear
geometry.

:line

Styles with a {gpu}, {intel}, {kk}, {omp}, or {opt} suffix are
functionally the same as the corresponding style without the suffix.
They have been optimized to run faster, depending on your available
hardware, as discussed on the "Speed packages"_Speed_packages.html doc
page.  The accelerated styles take the same arguments and should
produce the same results, except for round-off and precision issues.

These accelerated styles are part of the GPU, USER-INTEL, KOKKOS,
USER-OMP and OPT packages, respectively.  They are only enabled if
LAMMPS was built with those packages.  See the "Build
package"_Build_package.html doc page for more info.

You can specify the accelerated styles explicitly in your input script
by including their suffix, or you can use the "-suffix command-line
switch"_Run_options.html when you invoke LAMMPS, or you can use the
"suffix"_suffix.html command in your input script.

See the "Speed packages"_Speed_packages.html doc page for more
instructions on how to use the accelerated styles effectively.

:line

[Restrictions:]

This angle style can only be used if LAMMPS was built with the
MOLECULE package.  See the "Build package"_Build_package.html doc page
for more info.

[Related commands:]

"angle_coeff"_angle_coeff.html

[Default:] none

:line

:link(cosine-Mayo)
[(Mayo)] Mayo, Olfason, Goddard III, J Phys Chem, 94, 8897-8909
(1990).
